DOCS-5339 create references for has and protect helpers (#688)
clerk/clerk-docs: docs/organizations/verify-user-permissions.mdx

# Verify the active user's permissions in an organization

<Callout type="info">
  The following authorization checks are predicated on a user having an active organization. Without this, they will likely always evaluate to false by default. Clerk's built-in [`<OrganizationSwitcher/>`](/docs/components/organization/organization-switcher) component and[`useOrganizationList().setActive({ organization: <orgId> })`](/docs/references/react/use-organization-list) method are two available options to set an organization as active for a user.
</Callout>

> Clerk provides two kinds of helpers for authorization:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clerk enables two broad approaches to authorization:
```

Reviewer: @alexisintech This and the next couple suggested changes should reword and reframe the intro to this page. Feel free to change them as you please 👍. I think a thorough cleanup of this page should be part of a separate linear ticket, as I don't want to block this PR for much longer

> - `protect()` helpers are opinionated and will block additional processing for unauthorized users, either by not rendering children or by throwing errors. The [`<Protect>` component](/docs/components/protect) and the experimental [`auth().protect()`](/docs/references/nextjs/auth#protect) method fall into this category.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Immediately blocking unauthorized users**.
  - Use the [`<Protect>`](/docs/components/protect) component to prevent content from rendering if the active user is unauthorized.
  - Call [`auth().protect()`](/docs/references/nextjs/auth#protect) to throw an error if the active user is unauthorized.
```

> - [`has()` helpers](/docs/references/nextjs/authentication-object#has) are more composable and flexible. They allow you to check and see what permissions a user *has*. You can decide what to do if the user lacks the permission.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Configuring custom behavior for unauthorized users*.
  - The [`has()`](/docs/references/nextjs/authentication-object#has) helper returns false if the active user lacks the permissions you're checking for. You can choose how your app responds without immediately throwing an error or preventing content from rendering.
```

> Clerk provides two kinds of helpers for authorization:

Reviewer: Out of scope of this PR, but we should discuss whether we want to speak about our company in third or first person. This doc uses third, but [others use first person](https://clerk.com/docs/quickstarts/setup-clerk#create-a-clerk-application). Either is fine IMO, as long as we're consistent

![image](https://github.com/clerk/clerk-docs/assets/5156915/e413b0d5-db97-4620-8297-89dfdc7c4814)

cc @kylemac @jescalan for thoughts

Reviewer 2: We have a style guide @S3Prototype that @alexisintech has been steaduly updating old docs to adhere to. See https://github.com/clerk/clerk-docs/blob/main/STYLEGUIDE.md

Reviewer: @royanger Thanks!

> - `protect()` helpers are opinionated and will block additional processing for unauthorized users, either by not rendering children or by throwing errors. The [`<Protect>` component](/docs/components/protect) and the experimental [`auth().protect()`](/docs/references/nextjs/auth#protect) method fall into this category.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `protect()` helpers are opinionated and will block additional processing for unauthorized users, either by not rendering children or by throwing errors. There are multiple ways to use `protect()`:
	- Using the [`<Protect>`](/docs/components/protect) component
	- Calling [`auth().protect()`](/docs/references/nextjs/auth#protect) (experimental)
```
I think a nested list makes this a little easier to read 👍

> - [`has()` helpers](/docs/references/nextjs/authentication-object#has) are more composable and flexible. They allow you to check and see what permissions a user *has*. You can decide what to do if the user lacks the permission.

Reviewer: A couple questions:

1. Why do we refer to them as "kinds of helpers" in this section, instead of just "helpers"?
2. Is there more than one `has()`? If not, maybe we should refer to it as the `has()` helper, singular?

Author: I didn't write the original doc, so good catch! I will update the copy to remove "kinds of helpers".
and I agree about the singular usage

Author: So I didn't originally write this doc, but I think their impression was that they wanted to address an actual helper, and then a "helper" component. because we have protect() and we also have <Protect />
I am definitely open to changing up the wording here. Do you want to give it a shot?
